\input texinfo  @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c
@c AUTHORS.texi -- ccd2cue AUTHORS file
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2010, 2013 Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro
@c <oitofelix@riseup.net>
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
@c document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
@c Version 1.2 or any later version published by the Free Software
@c Foundation; with no Invariant Sections.  A copy of the license is
@c included in the section entitled “GNU Free Documentation License.”.
@c

@c %**start of header
@setfilename ccd2cue-AUTHORS.info
@documentencoding UTF-8
@c @documentlanguage en_US
@firstparagraphindent insert
@footnotestyle end
@settitle AUTHORS
@c %**end of header





@c --- Copying;
@set FILE AUTHORS
@include copying.texi





@c --- Info directory entry;
@dircategory Converter
@direntry
* ccd2cue AUTHORS file: (ccd2cue-AUTHORS)@
User-visible changes since previous versions;
@end direntry





@c --- Info Top Node;
@ifnottex
@node Top
@top AUTHORS
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex





@c --- Menu;
@menu
* Preface::          What this document is all about and how it is organized.

Contributors:
* Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro::
@end menu





@c --- Table of contents;
@sp 1
@noindent
--- Table of Contents ---
@contents
@sp 2





@c --- Preface;
@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface
@cindex introduction

This document contains a list of people that made sufficiently large
contributions to development that they can be regarded as truly
authors of the program.  This program would not be what it is today
without the invaluable help of these people, for whom we would like to
say:

@center @strong{THANK YOU VERY MUCH!}
@sp 1

The names are listed in chronological order of contribution.  Each
person's contact information, usually email, and a summary of that
person's contribution is put in per correspondent section.

For contributions that does not matter for copyright purposes, e.g.,
minor or non-source code contributions, see file @file{THANKS}.  If
you would appreciate your own name listed here, @strong{please
contribute!}  See the ``Contributing'' section of the @file{README}
file.





@c --- Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro;
@node Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro
@chapter Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro

@table @strong
@item Name
Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro
@item Nick
oitofelix
@item Email
@email{oitofelix@@riseup.net}
@end table

He is the original and only author until now.
