\input texinfo  @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c
@c DONORS.texi -- ccd2cue DONORS file
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2010, 2013 Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro
@c <oitofelix@riseup.net>
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
@c document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
@c Version 1.2 or any later version published by the Free Software
@c Foundation; with no Invariant Sections.  A copy of the license is
@c included in the section entitled “GNU Free Documentation License.”.
@c

@c %**start of header
@setfilename ccd2cue-DONORS.info
@documentencoding UTF-8
@c @documentlanguage en_US
@firstparagraphindent insert
@footnotestyle end
@include version.texi
@settitle DONORS
@c %**end of header





@c --- Copying;
@set FILE DONORS
@include copying.texi





@c --- Info directory entry;
@dircategory Converter
@direntry
* ccd2cue DONORS file: (ccd2cue-DONORS)@
User-visible changes since previous versions;
@end direntry





@c --- Info Top Node;
@ifnottex
@node Top
@top DONORS
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex





@c --- Menu;
@menu
* Preface::          What this document is all about and how it is organized.

Contributors:
@end menu





@c --- Title page;
@titlepage
@title DONORS
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION} (@value{UPDATED})
@author Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro <@email{oitofelix@@riseup.net}>
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage





@c --- Table of contents;
@sp 1
@noindent
--- Table of Contents ---
@contents
@sp 2





@c --- Preface;
@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface
@cindex introduction

This document contains a list of people that supported development by
means of donation.  This program would not be what it is today without
the invaluable help of these people, for whom we would like to say:

@center @strong{THANK YOU VERY MUCH!}
@sp 1

The names are listed in chronological order of contribution.  Each
person's contact information, usually email, and a summary of that
person's contribution is put in per correspondent section.

If you would appreciate your own name listed here, @strong{please
donate!}  See the ``Donating'' section of the @file{README} file.

@sp 1
@center @emph{Unfortunately no one has donated so far.  Be the first!}
