\input texinfo  @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c
@c NEWS.texi -- ccd2cue NEWS file
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2010, 2013 Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro
@c <oitofelix@riseup.net>
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
@c document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
@c Version 1.2 or any later version published by the Free Software
@c Foundation; with no Invariant Sections.  A copy of the license is
@c included in the section entitled “GNU Free Documentation License.”.
@c

@c %**start of header
@setfilename ccd2cue-NEWS.info
@documentencoding UTF-8
@c @documentlanguage en_US
@firstparagraphindent insert
@footnotestyle end
@include version.texi
@settitle NEWS
@c %**end of header





@c --- Copying;
@set FILE NEWS
@include copying.texi





@c --- Info directory entry;
@dircategory Converter
@direntry
* ccd2cue NEWS file: (ccd2cue-NEWS)@
User-visible changes since previous versions;
@end direntry





@c --- Info Top Node;
@ifnottex
@node Top
@top NEWS
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex





@c --- Menu;
@menu
* Preface::          What this document is all about.

Versions:
* 0.2::
@end menu





@c --- Title page;
@titlepage
@title NEWS
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION} (@value{UPDATED})
@author Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro <@email{oitofelix@@riseup.net}>
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage





@c --- Table of contents;
@sp 1
@noindent
--- Table of Contents ---
@contents
@sp 2





@c --- Preface;
@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface
@cindex introduction

This document contains a list of user-visible changes worth
mentioning.  The changes are split and ordered by version in reverse
chronological order.





@c --- Preface;
@node 0.2
@chapter 0.2

@itemize
@item
Support for all features of the CUE sheet format, prominently CD-Text
meta-data and track sub-code flags.
@item
Internationalization support using gettext.
@item
Compliance with the GNU Coding Standards and the GNU Maintaining
Standards.  @xref{,,, standards, GNU Coding Standards}.  @xref{,,,
maintain, GNU Maintaining Standards}.  Noteworthy changes are the use
of the GNU build system for the ease and consistency of build and
installation (see @file{INSTALL} file), documentation in the Texinfo
format, notably an user manual that can be outputted in numerous
formats including, but not limited to, printable pdf, info, html and
plain text.  @xref{,,, ccd2cue, The ccd2cue Manual}.
@item
Traditional Unix man page automatically generated by
@command{help2man}.
@item
Doxygen for in-depth source code documentation. That can be used to
output pdf, html and numerous other formats documenting the inner
workings of the code.
@item
GNU compliant command line parsing provided by Argp.  It is no more
necessary to provide arguments in the fixed order of command's
synopsis; the arguments can be given in any order and long options are
accepted.
@item
The command line options suffered the following changes to comply with
GNU Coding Standards:
@table @option
@item -o
Has companion long option @option{--output}.
@item -i
Has companion long option @option{--image}.
@item -h
Changed to @option{-?} with companion long option @option{--help}.
@item -v
Changed to @option{-V} with companion long option @option{--version}.
@end table

The following command line options were added to cover new features:
@table @option
@item -c @file{@var{cdt-file}}
@itemx --cd-text=@file{@var{cdt-file}}
Writes CD-Text data to @file{@var{cdt-file}}.
@item -a
@itemx --absolute-file-name
Uses absolute file name deduction.
@item --usage
Gives a short usage message.
@end table

@item
It is no longer required to specify @option{-i} option in every
invocation.  It is enough to specify only one file name on the command
invocation, as an option or non-option argument, since the remaining
needed file names are now deduced automatically.
@end itemize
