\input texinfo  @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c
@c README.texi -- ccd2cue README file
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2010, 2013 Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro
@c <oitofelix@riseup.net>
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
@c document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
@c Version 1.2 or any later version published by the Free Software
@c Foundation; with no Invariant Sections.  A copy of the license is
@c included in the section entitled “GNU Free Documentation License.”.
@c

@c %**start of header
@setfilename ccd2cue-README.info
@documentencoding UTF-8
@c @documentlanguage en_US
@firstparagraphindent insert
@footnotestyle end
@include version.texi
@settitle README
@c %**end of header





@c --- Copying;
@set FILE README
@include copying.texi





@c --- Info directory entry;
@dircategory Converter
@direntry
* ccd2cue README file: (ccd2cue-README)@
Distribution, contacting community, bug reports, contribution and
hacking
@end direntry





@c --- Info Top Node;
@ifnottex
@node Top
@top README
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex





@c --- Menu;
@menu
* Preface::          What this document is all about and where to get more information.
* Distribution::     How to distribute the program you got.
* Getting a copy::   How to get a copy of the program and its documentation.
* Getting in touch:: How to contact developers and user community.
* Bug reporting::    How to fill a bug report.
* Contributing::     How to contribute to development and its community.
* Donating::         How to support developer's work.
* Hacking::          How to hack the code.
* Index::            Concepts index.
@end menu





@c --- Title page;
@titlepage
@title README
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION} (@value{UPDATED})
@author Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro <@email{oitofelix@@riseup.net}>
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage





@c --- Table of contents;
@sp 1
@noindent
--- Table of Contents ---
@contents
@sp 2





@c --- Preface;
@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface
@cindex introduction

This document briefly explains the rules of distribution of this
program@footnote{The expression ``this program'' is used throughout
the documentation to reference the whole software included in the same
package as this file.} and its documentation, how to contact the
community, how to fill bug reports, how to contribute to the project
and how to get started hacking the code.  If you have checked out the
source tree from the CVS repository see @ref{Hacking}.  For other
information about this package you can check the following files found
in the top level directory of the distribution:

@cindex documentation files
@cindex help files
@cindex files help
@table @file
@item INSTALL
Generic build and installation instructions;
@item NEWS
User-visible changes since previous versions;
@item AUTHORS
List of major contributors;
@item THANKS
List of minor contributors;
@item TODO
Features we want to see implemented someday;
@c @item BUGS
@c Bugs you must be aware of;
@item DONORS
People who supported the development by donations;
@item ABOUT-NLS
Internationalization and localization matters;
@item COPYING
The program license;
@item COPYING.DOC
The documentation license;
@item ChangeLog
Detailed list of changes of the source code;
@end table

@cindex Richard Stallman
@cindex Stallman, Richard
@cindex GNU
@cindex The GNU Project
@cindex Linux and the GNU system
@cindex Free Software Movement
Information about the GNU operating system, the GNU Project and the
Free Software Movement are included in the distribution --- for your
pleasure --- in the form of some articles by Richard Stallman (RMS).
See the top-level files:

@table @file
@item GNU
The GNU Manifesto;
@item THE-GNU-PROJECT
The GNU Project history;
@item LINUX-GNU
Linux and the GNU system;
@item WHY-FREE
Why Software Should Not Have Owners;
@end table

@cindex site
@cindex web
@cindex atom feed
@cindex feed of updates
For more information about this program you can visit its home page at
@url{http://www.nongnu.org/ccd2cue/}.  If you want to receive
notifications about new releases of this program or important issues
related to it, subscribe to the mailing list, as described in
@ref{Getting in touch}, or subscribe to the project atom feed
@url{https://savannah.nongnu.org/news/atom.php?group=ccd2cue}.





@c --- Distribution;
@node Distribution
@chapter Distribution

@cindex free software
@cindex free documentation
@cindex user rights
@cindex rights of the user
@cindex distribution
This program is @dfn{free software}; this means that everyone is free
to use it and free to redistribute it under certain conditions.  This
program is not in the public domain; it is copyrighted and there are
restrictions on its distribution, but these restrictions are designed
to permit everything that a good cooperating citizen would want to do.
What is not allowed is to try to prevent others from further sharing
any version of this program that they might get from you.  The precise
conditions are found in the GNU General Public License (@file{COPYING}
file).  The program manual is covered by the GNU Free Documentation
License (@file{COPYING.DOC} file).  This license is similar in spirit
to the GNU General Public License, but is more suitable for
documentation.





@c --- Getting a copy;
@node Getting a copy
@chapter Getting a copy

@cindex copying
One way to get a copy of this program is from someone else who has it.
You need not ask for our permission to do so, or tell any one else;
just copy it.  You may also receive this program when you buy a
computer.  Computer manufacturers are free to distribute copies on the
same terms that apply to everyone else.  These terms require them to
give you the full sources, including whatever changes they may have
made, and to permit you to redistribute the program received from them
under the usual terms of the GNU General Public License.  In other
words, the program must be free for you when you get it, not just free
for the manufacturer.

@cindex release
If you have access to the Internet, you can get the latest
distribution version of this program at
@url{http://download.savannah.gnu.org/releases/ccd2cue/}.  Please, use
a mirror if possible; you will be automatically redirected to the
nearest mirror at
@url{http://download-mirror.savannah.gnu.org/releases/ccd2cue/}.

@cindex cvs repository
@cindex development version
A CVS repository, where the development takes place, is also
available.  It maintains the full history of modifications of every
single source file.  You can checkout any given revision of any file
or get a snapshot of the entire source tree in a particular desired
state.  Special build tools, as described in @ref{Hacking}, are
required to build from those checkouts, though.  Notably, to stay up
to date with the latest developments in the source tree, you can
anonymously checkout the repository with the following command:
@example
cvs -z3 -d:pserver:anonymous@@cvs.savannah.nongnu.org:\
/sources/ccd2cue co ccd2cue
@end example





@c --- Getting in touch;
@node Getting in touch
@chapter Getting in touch

@cindex contact user community
@cindex user community contact
@cindex community contact
@cindex developers contact
@cindex contact developers
@cindex mailing list
You can get in touch with other users and the developers of this
program subscribing to the mailing list.  Anyone is welcome to join
the list; to do so, visit
@url{http://lists.nongnu.org/mailman/listinfo/ccd2cue-bug/} or send an
email to @email{ccd2cue-bug-join@@nongnu.org}.  You can use this list
for all discussion, including asking for help and bug reporting,
although the preferred method for reporting bugs is the dedicated bug
tracking web interface described in @ref{Bug reporting}.  To post a
message to all the list members, send email to
@email{ccd2cue-bug@@nongnu.org}.  To see the collection of prior
postings to the list, visit its archive at:
@url{http://lists.nongnu.org/archive/html/ccd2cue-bug/}.

@cindex IRC channel
If you feel somewhat chatty, eager for a somewhat more instantaneous
response from community, you can join us on our friendly IRC channel:
@display
#ccd2cue at freenode.net
@end display





@c --- Bug reporting;
@node Bug reporting
@chapter Bug reporting
@cindex bug reporting
@cindex reporting a bug
@cindex support
@cindex getting support
If you come across some problem and need help you can contact the
community as described @xref{Getting in touch}.  If you think you
found a bug, but is not quite sure about it, you can instead ask for
support on our support tracker at
@url{https://savannah.nongnu.org/support/?group=ccd2cue}.
We will revise your post, advise you and take the appropriate
measures.  If you are confident you have found a bug, you can submit a
bug report directly at our bug tracker:
@url{https://savannah.nongnu.org/bugs/?group=ccd2cue}.  Please, when
reporting a bug include enough information for the maintainers to
reproduce the problem.  Generally speaking, that means:

@itemize
@item
The contents of any input files necessary to reproduce the bug and
command line invocations of the program(s) involved (crucial!).
@item
A description of the problem and any samples of the erroneous output.
@item
The version number of the program(s) involved (use
@option{--version}).
@item
Hardware, operating system, and compiler versions (@code{uname -a}).
@item
Unusual options you gave to configure, if any (see
@file{config.status}).
@item
Anything else that you think would be helpful.
@end itemize





@c --- Contributing;
@node Contributing
@chapter Contributing
@cindex helping development
@cindex contributing to development

This program is a collaborative project and we encourage contributions
from anyone and everyone --- your help is very much appreciated.  You
can help in many ways:

@itemize
@item
@cindex donation
@cindex supporting development
@cindex development, supporting it
Donate to developers in order to support their work.  See
@ref{Donating}.
@item
Write documentation.  We are specially in need to complete the CCD
sheet format specification.
@item
Help users in the mailing list and IRC channel.
@item
Find and report bugs.  @xref{Bug reporting}.
@item
Fix reported bugs.
@item
Implement new feature ideas.
@item
Write test cases.
@item
Check the documentation against the implementation.
@item
Translate the program strings to other languages.
@end itemize

@cindex project site
@cindex development site
You can join the development team to contribute code and documentation
at @url{https://savannah.nongnu.org/projects/ccd2cue/}.  Patches are
most welcome, but contributed code should follow the GNU Coding
Standards.  @xref{,,, standards, GNU Coding Standards}.  If it
doesn't, we'll need to find someone to fix the code before we can use
it.  It is also necessary that the contributor be willing to assign
their copyright to the @acronym{FSF, Free Software Foundation}, since
the developers plan to make it officially part of the GNU operating
system and they want FSF to enforce the program's license.  To get
started hacking see @ref{Hacking}.





@c --- Donating;
@node Donating
@chapter Donating
@cindex financial support

If you find this program useful, please @strong{send a donation} to
its developers to support their work.  If you use this program at your
workplace, please suggest that the company make a donation.  We
appreciate contributions of any size -- donations enable us to spend
more time working on the project, and help cover our infrastructure
expenses.

If you'd like to make a donation of any value, please send it to the
following Bitcoin address:

@cindex bitcoin address
@example
12sKDaBNYekQuRPdrpnbUL4YRDKrzMnY62
@end example

@cindex donors web page
Since our project isn't a tax-exempt organization, we can't offer you
a tax deduction, but for all donations over 0.05 BTC, we'd be happy to
recognize your contribution on
@url{http://http://www.nongnu.org/ccd2cue/donors/} and on
@file{DONORS} file for the next release.

@cindex hire to implement feature
We are also happy to consider making particular improvements or
changes, or giving specific technical assistance, in return for a
substantial donation over 0.5 BTC.  If you would like to discuss this
possibility, write to us at @email{ccd2cue-support@@nongnu.org}.

Another possibility is to pay a software maintenance fee.  Again,
write to us about this at @email{ccd2cue-support@@nongnu.org} to
discuss how much you want to pay and how much maintenance we can offer
in return.

@center @strong{Thanks for your support!}




@c --- Hacking;
@node Hacking
@chapter Hacking
@cindex hacking
@cindex building from cvs
@cindex development version, building
@noindent
The development sources are available through CVS at Savannah:

@display
https://savannah.nongnu.org/cvs/?group=ccd2cue
@end display

If you are getting the sources from CVS (or change
@file{configure.ac}), you'll need to have Automake, Autoconf and
Gettext installed to (re)build.  You'll also need help2man.  All of
these programs are available from @url{ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu}.

After getting the CVS sources, and installing the tools above, you can
run @code{./bootstrap} to do a fresh build.  After that first time,
running @command{make} should suffice.  See file @file{INSTALL}.

When modifying the sources, or making a distribution, more is needed,
as follows:

@itemize
@item
This distribution also uses Gnulib
(@url{http://www.gnu.org/software/gnulib}) to share common files,
stored as a submodule in git.
@item
When updating gettext, besides the normal installation on the system,
it is necessary to run @code{gettextize -f} in this hierarchy to
update the @file{po/} infrastructure.  After doing so, rerun
@code{gnulib-tool --import} since otherwise older files will have been
imported.  @xref{,,, gnulib, Gnulib Manual}, for more information.
@end itemize





@c --- Index;
@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye
