\input texinfo  @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c
@c THANKS.texi -- ccd2cue THANKS file
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2010, 2013 Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro
@c <oitofelix@riseup.net>
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
@c document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
@c Version 1.2 or any later version published by the Free Software
@c Foundation; with no Invariant Sections.  A copy of the license is
@c included in the section entitled “GNU Free Documentation License.”.
@c

@c %**start of header
@setfilename ccd2cue-THANKS.info
@documentencoding UTF-8
@c @documentlanguage en_US
@firstparagraphindent insert
@footnotestyle end
@include version.texi
@settitle THANKS
@c %**end of header





@c --- Copying;
@set FILE THANKS
@include copying.texi





@c --- Info directory entry;
@dircategory Converter
@direntry
* ccd2cue THANKS file: (ccd2cue-THANKS)@
User-visible changes since previous versions;
@end direntry





@c --- Info Top Node;
@ifnottex
@node Top
@top THANKS
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex





@c --- Menu;
@menu
* Preface::          What this document is all about and how it is organized.

Contributors:
@end menu





@c --- Title page;
@titlepage
@title THANKS
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION} (@value{UPDATED})
@author Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro <@email{oitofelix@@riseup.net}>
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage





@c --- Table of contents;
@sp 1
@noindent
--- Table of Contents ---
@contents
@sp 2





@c --- Preface;
@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface
@cindex introduction

This document contains a list of people that reported problems,
suggested improvements or submitted relatively small portions of
actual code.  This program would not be what it is today without the
invaluable help of these people, for whom we would like to say:

@center @strong{THANK YOU!}
@sp 1

The names are listed in chronological order of contribution.  Each
person's contact information, usually email, and a summary of that
person's contribution is put in per correspondent section.

For contributions that does matter for copyright purposes, e.g., major
source code contributions, see file @file{AUTHORS}.  If you would
appreciate your own name listed here, @strong{please contribute!}  See
the ``Contributing'' section of the @file{README} file.

@sp 1
@center @emph{Unfortunately no one has contributed so far.  Be the first!}
