@c
@c TODO.texi -- Features we want to see implemented someday;
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2010, 2013 Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro
@c <oitofelix@gnu.org>
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
@c document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
@c Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
@c Foundation; with no Invariant Sections.
@c
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU Free Documentation
@c License along with this program.  If not, see
@c <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
@c

@c %**start of header
@ifclear manual
@setfilename TODO
@documentencoding UTF-8
@c @documentlanguage en_US
@firstparagraphindent insert
@footnotestyle end
@settitle TODO
@end ifclear
@include package.texi
@c %**end of header





@c --- homepage: Navigation bar;
@ifset homepage
@include navigation.texi
@end ifset





@c --- file: Copying notice;
@ifset file
@set FILE TODO
@include copying.texi
@insertcopying
@end ifset





@c --- TO DO;
@ifclear manual
@centerchap To do
@end ifclear

This @inlineifset{manual, chapter}@inlineifset{file,
file}@inlineifset{homepage, page} contains a list of ideas and
features which would be nice to see implemented some day.  If you are
ready to start working on any of these TODO items, we appreciate your
help; please write to @email{@value{mailBugAddr}} so we can be aware
that the problem is being addressed, and talk with you how to do it
best.  @inlineifclear{homepage, It is best to consult the latest
version of this file in the program source code repository.
@inlineifset{file, See the sections ``Getting a copy'' and ``Hacking''
of the @file{README} file}@inlineifset{manual, See @ref{Getting a
copy} and @ref{Hacking}} for instruction on how to access it.}

Since the developers of this program are willing to assign the
copyright of this package to FSF, please be prepared to sign legal
papers to transfer the copyright on your work to the FSF too.  For
more details on this and some more practical details about getting
involved, see @inlineifset{manual,
@ref{Contributing}}@inlineifset{homepage,
@url{README.html#Contributing, how to contribute}}@inlineifset{file,
the section ``Contributing'' in the @file{README} file}.

As well as the issues listed here, there are bug reports, which are
effectively to-do items too --- that can use your help --- at the
@url{https://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=ccd2cue, bug tracker web
interface}.  See @inlineifset{homepage,
@url{README.html#Bug-reporting, how to report a
bug}}@inlineifset{file, the section ``Bug reporting'' in @file{README}
file}@inlineifset{manual, @ref{Bug reporting}} for more information.

@table @asis
@item CCD sheet format specification
There is a specification of the CCD sheet format in the program
manual.  That specification is the result of a reverse engineering
process and is incomplete; pretty much only the fields that affects
the CUE sheet generation are known.  It would be very nice to decipher
the entirety of the format, and document it, so we can bring into
light whether there is room for improvement in the conversion process,
and to open new possibilities for more expressive formats like the TOC
sheet.
@item TOC sheet format
As the name implies the program GNU ccd2cue is designed to convert CCD
sheets only to the CUE sheet format.  This format has some well know
limitations regarding the sub-channel data, which apparently can be
mitigated by more expressive formats.  There is one sheet format
called ``TOC'' that is very common, well documented and accessible to
free software in the GNU system.  It seems that format was designed to
handle the sub-channel data that is the major flaw of the CUE sheet
format.  In fact it seems like a super-set of the CUE sheet format.
For that reason we would like to have a ccd2toc in complement of the
GNU ccd2cue.  But is that another project?  If not, we have to change
the name. ;-)
@end table





@c --- homepage: Footer;
@ifset homepage
@include footer.texi
@end ifset
