@c
@c ANNOUNCEMENT.texi -- Announcement of new release;
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2010, 2013, 2014, 2015 Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro
@c <oitofelix@gnu.org>
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
@c document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
@c Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
@c Foundation; with no Invariant Sections.
@c
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU Free Documentation
@c License along with this program.  If not, see
@c <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
@c

@c %**start of header
@ifclear manual
@setfilename ANNOUNCEMENT
@documentencoding UTF-8
@c @documentlanguage en_US
@firstparagraphindent insert
@footnotestyle end
@settitle ANNOUNCEMENT
@end ifclear
@include release.texi
@c %**end of header





@c --- homepage: Navigation bar;
@ifset homepage
@include navigation.texi
@end ifset





@c --- file: Copying notice;
@c @ifset file
@c @set FILE ANNOUNCEMENT
@c @include copying.texi
@c @insertcopying
@c @end ifset





@ifclear manual
@centerchap Announcement: @value{package} @value{version}
@end ifclear

I'm pleased to announce @value{package} @value{version} released
@value{date}.





@heading News

@itemize
@item
The code repository moved from CVS to Git.
@item
Mailing lists were re-purposed.  Now @email{bug-ccd2cue} is used
exclusive for bug reporting and @email{ccd2cue} for user support.
@item
Fixed bad wording in @option{--help} ``burning'' section's text.  Bug
reported by Benno Schulenberg of the Translation Project.
@item
Fixed potential crash caused by calling @code{error} function with wrong
arguments inside error handling routines.  Bug first noticed by Rosa
(GNU/)Linux maintainers.
@item
Fixed documentation distribution bug in which the @file{INSTALL} file
didn't get redistributed.  Bug reported by Darren S.
@item
Fixed build system bug in which @command{configure} didn't detect the
absence of @command{help2man} for maintainer builds.
@item
Mitigated failure of @code{distdir} Make target.
@item
Improved @code{maintainer-clean} Make target effectiveness.
@end itemize





@heading Download

@noindent
Here are the compressed sources and a GPG detached signature:
@example
@value{ftpTarball}
@value{ftpTarSign}
@end example

@noindent
Use a mirror for higher download bandwidth:
@example
@value{ftpMirrorTarball}
@value{ftpMirrorTarSign}
@end example

Use a @file{.sig} file to verify that the corresponding file (without
the @file{.sig} suffix) is intact.  First, be sure to download both
the @file{.sig} file and the corresponding tarball.  Then, run a
command like this:

@example
gpg --verify @value{tarSign}
@end example

If that command fails because you don't have the required public key,
then run this command to import it:

@example
gpg --recv-keys @value{keyID} --keyserver hkp://keys.gnupg.net
@end example

@noindent
and rerun the @code{gpg --verify} command.

This release is signed by @emph{@value{signer}}.  His key fingerprint
is @code{@value{fingerprint}}.

@noindent
This release was bootstrapped with the following tools:
@itemize
@item
GNU Autoconf @value{autoconfVersion}
@item
GNU Automake @value{automakeVersion}
@item
GNU Texinfo @value{texinfoVersion}
@end itemize





@heading Description

GNU ccd2cue is a CCD sheet to CUE sheet converter.  It supports the
full extent of CUE sheet format expressiveness, including mixed-mode
discs and CD-Text meta-data.  It plays an important role for those who
need to use optical disc data which is only available in the
proprietary sheet format CCD, but don't want to surrender their
freedom.  It fills an important gap in the free software world because
before its conception it was impossible to use complex forms of
optical disc data laid out by CCD sheets in a whole/holy free
operating system.

The GNU ccd2cue documentation is also intended to be a reference
documentation for both sheet format specifications.  That way we can
reverse engineer the secret CCD sheet proprietary format only once and
then make the information available for developers in order to benefit
all free software users that want their software to be interoperable.
The CUE sheet format is not a secret, but with this package we take
the opportunity to ensure that its specification is available under a
free documentation license for the sake of the whole free software
community.




@heading Links

@table @asis
@item Homepage
@value{webPage}
@item Atom feed
@value{atomFeed}
@item Help and support mailing list
@value{mailHelpAddr}
@item Bug reporting mailing list
@value{mailBugAddr}
@item IRC channel
@value{IRCurl}
@item Support Tracker
@value{supportTrack}
@item Bug Tracker
@value{bugTrack}
@item Development page
@value{develPage}
@end table





@c --- homepage: Footer;
@ifset homepage
@include footer.texi
@end ifset
