@c
@c latest-news.texi -- Latest release news items;
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2010, 2013, 2014, 2015 Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro
@c <oitofelix@gnu.org>
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
@c document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
@c Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
@c Foundation; with no Invariant Sections.
@c
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU Free Documentation
@c License along with this program.  If not, see
@c <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
@c

@c This file is intended to provide the latest release news for the
@c 'NEWS.texi' and 'ANNOUNCEMENT.texi' files to avoid duplication of
@c information and syncing work.  After a release is made the news items
@c below should be moved to the 'NEWS.texi' file and another list should
@c be built from scratch here.

@itemize
@item
Danish, German, Ukrainian and Vietnamese translations.
@item
Support for localized Unix manual pages.  Feature suggested by Mario
Blättermann (German translator).
@item
Respectable Unix manual pages.
@item
Localizable @option{--help} meta-variables.  Bug reported by Mario
Blättermann.
@item
Numerous grammatical and markup corrections to the user's manual.  Patch
submitted by Karl Berry.
@item
Make target @code{announcegnu} which automatically sends a signed
announcement message to @email{info-gnu@@gnu.org} and
@email{ccd2cue@@gnu.org} mailing lists when a release is ready.  This
target can only be made in VCS checkouts.
@item
Make target @code{fetchpo} Make target which fetches from the
Translation Project the latest PO files available .  This target can
only be made in VCS checkouts.
@item
Latest release news, manifesto and package version in a single point of
maintenance.
@item
Package meta-information, as release date and build system version,
automatically generated at configuration time.
@item
Announcement message in user's manual.
@item
Make target @code{distdir} can be made when top-level documentation
files are missing.
@end itemize
