@c
@c NEWS.texi -- User-visible changes since previous versions;
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2010, 2013, 2014 Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro
@c <oitofelix@gnu.org>
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
@c document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
@c Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
@c Foundation; with no Invariant Sections.
@c
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU Free Documentation
@c License along with this program.  If not, see
@c <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
@c

@c %**start of header
@ifclear manual
@setfilename NEWS
@documentencoding UTF-8
@c @documentlanguage en_US
@firstparagraphindent insert
@footnotestyle end
@settitle NEWS
@end ifclear
@include release.texi
@c %**end of header





@c --- homepage: Navigation bar;
@ifset homepage
@include navigation.texi
@end ifset





@c --- file: Copying notice;
@ifset file
@set FILE NEWS
@include copying.texi
@insertcopying
@end ifset





@c --- NEWS;
@ifclear manual
@centerchap News
@end ifclear

This document contains a list of user-visible changes worth
mentioning.  The changes are split and ordered by version in reverse
chronological order.  If you want to receive notifications about new
releases of this program or important issues related to it, subscribe
to the mailing list, as described in @inlineifset{manual,
@ref{Contact}}@inlineifset{homepage, @url{README.html#Contact,
Contact}}@inlineifset{file, ``Contact'' section of @file{README}
file}, or subscribe to the package atom feed @url{@value{atomFeed}}.

@table @asis
@item 0.3
The program ccd2cue has become a GNU package, and therefore is now
dubbed GNU ccd2cue.  Its code and documentation have been updated to
reflect such remarkable occurrence.
@item 0.2
@itemize
@item
Support for all features of the CUE sheet format, prominently CD-Text
meta-data and track sub-code flags.
@item
Internationalization support using gettext.
@item
Compliance with the GNU Coding Standards and the GNU Maintaining
Standards.  See @ref{,,, standards, GNU Coding Standards} and @ref{,,,
maintain, GNU Maintaining Standards}.  Noteworthy changes are the use
of the GNU build system for the ease and consistency of build and
installation (see @file{INSTALL} file), documentation in the Texinfo
format, notably an user manual that can be outputted in numerous
formats including, but not limited to, printable pdf, info, html and
plain text.
@item
Traditional Unix man page automatically generated by
@url{https://www.gnu.org/software/help2man, help2man}.
@item
Doxygen for in-depth source code documentation. That can be used to
output pdf, html and numerous other formats documenting the inner
workings of the code.
@item
GNU compliant command line parsing provided by Argp.  It is no more
necessary to provide arguments in the fixed order of command's
synopsis; the arguments can be given in any order and long options are
accepted.
@item
The command line options suffered the following changes to comply with
GNU Coding Standards:
@table @option
@item -o
Has companion long option @option{--output}.
@item -i
Has companion long option @option{--image}.
@item -h
Changed to @option{-?} with companion long option @option{--help}.
@item -v
Changed to @option{-V} with companion long option @option{--version}.
@end table

The following command line options were added to cover new features:
@table @option
@item -c @file{@var{cdt-file}}
@itemx --cd-text=@file{@var{cdt-file}}
Writes CD-Text data to @file{@var{cdt-file}}.
@item -a
@itemx --absolute-file-name
Uses absolute file name deduction.
@item --usage
Gives a short usage message.
@end table

@item
It is no longer required to specify @option{-i} option in every
invocation.  It is enough to specify only one file name on the command
invocation, as an option or non-option argument, since the remaining
needed file names are now deduced automatically.
@end itemize

@item 0.1
Initial release;
@end table





@c --- homepage: Footer;
@ifset homepage
@include footer.texi
@end ifset
